The next piece of what I wanted to look
at is this, the part about getters,
which is something we didn't actually
talk about, but we will now.
So we have actions and mutations,
we talked about that in length in terms of
an action creates an asynchronous fetch,
which is pinging inventory or
fetching from inventory and
then it commits specific mutation.
And so if you looked at the stock counter,
that is the supply or the change in
which the supply gets changed, so
you see a decrement, increment and so on.
But the thing is, it's useful for
us to perhaps add a layer of
information on top of it.
So we want to perhaps add
a layer of information over
the specific supply itself.
So right now we have this
action that happens and
then the mutation changes
the specific supply.
And then we looked at
the code specific to that.
Just the idea from lines 22 to 30 is where
we're actually fetching inventory and
then updating specific properties and
so on and mutating.
But of course, we want to look at getters
specifically in detail because we talked
about actions and mutations.
We didn't really talk about getters,
we sort of glossed over that.
And so let's look at that particular
piece of Vuex because it can be really
useful in our applications.
A way of thinking about getters is that
it's a way of computing derived state.
What I mean by that is it allows you to
look at your state within the store and
then check for certain properties.
So something that might be useful is
you might want to check whether or
not your supply is low.
I shouldn't have started 40,
there you go [LAUGH] terrible top,
it should have been 10 never mind,
we're here now.
So you might have noticed
that I have added
a sort of a caution
icon onto my supply and
what this is doing is it's checking to see
whether supply is below a certain number,
and if supply is below a certain number,
it shows this specific thing.
And so for this I'm using a getter.
What it's doing is that specific getter,
which shows this caution icon
is just looking at my state,
in this case, the supply in the state.
And it's checking to make sure that
it doesn't fall below a number and
if it does, then it tells the front
end that something has changed and
you sort of see that bubble up.
So that's really useful.
And so this is where a getter comes in.
You have two pieces, we looked at state
which is state gets changed as actions
happen and
mutations happen within your store.
But you can also add a layer of
information like a getter, so
the getter checks for state and
then adds extra things to your front
end that can be really useful.
So let's look at what that looks
like from our application itself.
So, we'll start by looking
at our store specifically,
and we'll add a getter to our store.
So on line 13, I created getter called,
is supply low.
Personally, I like to call my getters as
sort of like a question because oftentimes
you can think of a getter as you're
asking your store what's in the state.
So is supply low is like is supply low,
and then the getter will tell you yes it
is or it might tell you what exactly
the thing you're asking for is.
That's a useful way in which
I name my getters just for
a fun way of thinking about it.
So in this particular case
I called it isSupplyLow.
And so isSupplyLow is a true,
false question.
So for that I'm just checking
specifically whether or
not the supply has fallen below 10.
So is state.supply below 10 and
it's just returning true or
false the state at which that is.
And then from the component itself,
I'm creating again, we're using computed
properties because, a getter very similar
to state gets updated as mutations happen,
because a getter is checking state,
state gets changed very commonly.
And so
getters also are changed very similarly.
And so I'm using a computer property
because I want my view instance to always
be aware when something happens like
state, or getters in this case.
And so I'll call my getter isSupplyLow.
And then I will essentially
check the getter in the store.
And again, very similar to checking for
state you're doing this
.dollarstore.getters dot
name of the specific getter.
So the getter is called isSupplyLow.
So I'm doing this
.dollar.store.gettersisSupplyLow.
And all that's doing is
it's returning that true or
false that I can then use
in my front end itself.
So that's a really useful way in
which I can use a getter to propagate
some kind of attribute or
show some data from my front end itself.
And the reason I use a getter is because
let's say I have multiple different
components that all show
various inventories.
I want to be able to reuse
that piece of logic.
You could easily write this
in your component itself, but
it's useful as a getter because it's
specifically checking the store.
So there was a question in chat
about why getters are cached.
I sort of glossed over that.
But I did mention that getters are cached.
But something you may have noticed is
that getters are constantly updated as
state changes.
And so the reason I say it's cached
is it's cached in the event that
state doesn't change.
So a computer property generally is cached
unless something changes to update itself.
So that's why I say it's cached,
it's not cached always as in,
it's not cached and never updated,
it's cached when updates don't happen.
So you're not constantly
querying state itself.
So for instance if state isn't changing,
the getter is not constantly checking and
asking the state whether or
not it changed if nothing's changed.